---
title: "230508 Programming Pearls - Re-read after 10 years"
template: "page"
slug: "23050800"
---

So I'm more than 10 years into programming.

Around 10 years back, I read [Programming Pearls by Jon L. Bentley](https://www.goodreads.com/en/book/show/52084) when I was an undergrad and was doing some side hustles (web development), eager to learn about how to write better programs. My first impression about this book was..mixed. It was full of concepts about fundamentals and it didn't tell me how I can write a cool web app -- I would prefer reading Laravel (a popular PHP framework) blogs instead of this old book.

But I read it anyways.

Quickly re-reading it 10 years later, it turns out that the "pearls" actually lingered and have had some good impact on my whole programming career.

An example would be, I've always known [Little's Law](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Little%27s_law) ("the long-term average number L of customers in a stationary system is equal to the long-term average effective arrival rate λ multiplied by the average time W that a customer spends in the system.") but I've never recalled where I acquired this knowledge. Also, I've always got some good hunch towards optimizing a program in terms of playing with the number of swaps/mods, or reducing the number of IOs, even in the initial days of my programming career, but I never really thought about where the hunch comes from.

I'm glad that I've gotten back to this little book. Casually skimming over how binary search was initially proposed and perfected, how the invariants were developed etc. is a relaxing experience.



